hello and welcome to the package manager
special interest group weekly sync for
May 28th I'm Andrew your host for today
because aching brain is moving house so
we've already got a note taker and the
clip pad link is in the chat so I'll
start this week I made a little project
called ipfs NPM republish the idea being
that you could go into a directory of a
program and JavaScript program that you
really have installed locally run a
command and have a mini registry just
for that project generated and uploaded
to ipfs in a single easy command it
works pretty nicely once you have the
what basically will download everything
drop the original tar balls into a temp
directory and add that directory to ipfs
which works just like a an NPM registry
that is read-only and I also added a
command so that you could do it for any
individual module as well which
basically will work out what the transit
dependencies of a of that particular
module are upload all of those together
in one little mini registry so that you
can then say npm install this module at
the registry directly from ipfs this
basically means that you can start to
kind of share individual modules as well
as applications over IP FS without
needing a registry because all the
payments have everything that you need
in there and they're right next to the
individual packages with a collection of
all of its dependencies so it's
basically like wraps everything up in a
nice neat little package and put
straight an IP FS
if we have some time at the end of the
call-out I'll show a little demo also
had a couple of fairly involved calls
discussing the MPM on ipfs roadmap and
also the package managers deep dive that
we're going to be running at ipfs camp I
think both of those are ongoing there
are notes and I've put in the crib pad
but I don't think there's any resolution
that we've reached on either of those
just yet
I also emerged in all of the updated
documentation on the package managers
repo so it's a little bit more organized
and gets it out of the issue tracker so
it's hopefully a little bit easier for
people to find and we can start to turn
that into more of a kind of a story or a
a path that you can follow to work out
what the hell like how ipfs and package
managers work together and why things
are like they are the way our next thing
I'm really doing is a little bit more
work on this republish script to try and
make it so that you can have more
versions than just whatever the current
resolved ocean is available as well as
further planning on the ipfs camp deep
dive and kind of the brainstorming
around the next set of work for package
managers special interest group on my
internet is awful sorry about that
the kind of planning for whatever the
next six months of package managers work
is what should kind of shake out as some
of the content for the deep dive of
areas to work out if they are relevant
to to work in and but we kind of need to
know what those things would look like
first of all so that's kind of where my
head's going to be this week Jessica
including talking through the the
overall roadmap and the deep defending I
have next up a few bits and pieces I
need to tie for that for like physical
artifacts that we're gonna have in the
room for the deep die of letting some
posters with some key points if people
can knock on a couple of things like
that I packed all the physical things
and then yeah next time more work for
the deep dive and excellence planning
want to look at the overall relief form
this SIG and add some of Mali's by
package manager' notes yes I did make a
little readme i just linked it in the
chat but feel free to completely
overhaul it it has just a little
paragraph of each different page but you
can use that as a starting point some of
Mali's notes from last week from that
word document that she made on the plane
it was like why package manager is very
very high-level stuff and then yeah
thank you for for this treachery this is
awesome yeah I'm just to do is go ahead
Jim I'm just sort of looking I did try
the ipfs NPM be published and it's it's
I don't know I think it's a breakthrough
1930 call so I think we should do a demo
but how are we gonna do that together we
talked about this oh the lightning
on I think I signed up I'm signed up for
one lightning alternatively I could
do a
you know lightning told okay I'm staying
at Oakland something else that would be
super I think that would actually be
super fun if you're still up for that
perfect thank you yeah so um I told Alex
about this but I have a forked go ipfs
that has a much less sucking version of
IPs yeah so it is it is is very fast
once you have discovered your peers
which sounds obvious and yet was not
because it still is slow even when you
were connected to everybody before
discovery is like not so slow because it
now takes only one DHT query instead of
16 and my next step is gonna be
rendezvous integration so that we can
like just set up a couple of servers
that can be then extended over time and
hopefully federated at some point and
that should make things like much much
faster without us needing to totally
punt to DNS so I have a fork on sort of
in the my like you know and my github
slash ipfs yeah Andrew and something I
noticed when having play around this
week is it actually takes time to
resolve your own IP NS is when you've
just published them I wondered if
there's like some kind of shortcut if
you can provably check that the IP NS is
one of your own like if you have the
private key for that can you not even
bother going out tasks anywhere else for
it yeah I mean you could that I could
probably be set up because you wouldn't
need to wait for a quorum anymore
because you know you are this source of
truth but it's it's only how it's all
like
one node IP an esky like if your peer ID
is the IP and s key then this is easy
right but if you publish with a
different key now I also have to check
my key registry to see if I'm the owner
of that key as well
um so like it's not quite as trivial as
it could be the good news is that with
the
reasonably with the you know pub/sub
okay nice stuff reap republishing like
allowing a third party to republish a
record on your behalf
comes for free as part of how pub/sub
like gossip protocols work which means
that you would also be able to hear
about yourself for free right so like
this would get solved by accident okay
that's cool yeah it was mostly for the
kind of first user experience of going
like oh I published a name let me go put
that in like in desktop to see what it
looks like and it goes this is gonna
take a while or if you wanted in this IP
IP ves republish script if you wanted to
have it drop a name at the end of it
then like you want to use that registry
straightaway it makes it like a slower
experience just to test that what you
what you created would be successfully
working yes if that's faster just by
accident then that's great it isn't
necessarily need for the shortcut and
yeah I mean we'll have to play route
that I haven't tried that too much but
it seems like it's like fast enough this
is also partially because the IPS over
pub/sub even the existing like non fork
version has a level of caching built
into it so as soon as you do a publish
like it hangs around so the yeah the
problem was just like you couldn't
access you couldn't really access that
initially so I bet you if you turned on
IPS ever pub/sub and you publish to
yourself and resolved from yourself it
would still be fast
because there's caching built into it is
that just a flag when running a command
or will you run it even when you run a
daemon there's a - - enable names this
pub/sub command but make sure you're
doing that on like the latest go ipfs
because if you're using like 0.4 dot 20
it will it will hang for reasons it'll
still do what it's doing it's just like
it will it will hang and not return even
though it probably should
ah but yeah if you wanna like the the
fork I have is like pretty pretty you
know reasonable does the things you
would expect it to do one one caveat is
that if you're trying to do if you
trying to do like pushing updates
quickly there's a flag you have to pass
and type in us to make sure that you
don't get a cached version of the data
or a there's caching at the CLI level
and caching at the network level so if
you want to turn off caching at the CLI
level then there's a flag to pass in
have you got like a pro request or some
ducks that we can link to to get people
to try this out so I don't have I there
is a PR that describes what is happening
what is happening in and why however I
after talking with the lib qaddafi folks
I have to like refactor and rima
where everything lives
to make life life easier for them and so
that's what I've been working on like
this last week and that's pretty much
done now so I just need to get some need
to get some reviews and then set up a
new PR for that yeah I just wanted to
have something out there so you guys
could get a feel of like what it what it
means when I say like fast after
discovery but yeah that's how I will
hopefully have something better in the
next week right so I do a little demo of
this ipfs we publish script and share my
screen does that work
okay so just got my terminal for now I'm
in a directory here that actually the
program itself but um the important
thing is that it has a package - lock
Jason which contains the fully resolved
dependency tree of this project which
has about one hundred and sixteen
different things you know I think the
loads of dependencies and basically
every one of these things in here is the
flattened dependency tree for this
project they didn't use have any
dependencies but I just had to add one
which brought in another hundred or
something along with it so what we can
run is a command that basically will go
and download a pack you mint and then
for each version that's specified the
locked version it will download that
Tarble and it will add them all to a
folder that basically makes the URL if
it's loaded over the Gateway look just
like an NPM registry URL so now good
question how do I switch from just
sharing now let's let's share my whole
desktop instead so if we open up ipfs
desktop and paste in
[Music]
generated CID go can see we got
different basically tar balls and this
is a JSON file but rather than putting
JSON on the end it looks like slash the
name of the package which is how NPM
goes looking up things that script then
we'll add into NPM RC the configuration
to use that new registry so that hap
that then works out the box you can
delete your node modules and you can
delete your package lock jason you don't
have to but we'll imagine that we're
starting from scratch almost as if
someone has just cloned this and then
they can run npm install and that will
pick up that new newly changed npm RC
file automatically and as you can see
it's pretty fast like it's not because
it's loading from your local IP FS
gateway then if we cat that package lock
file again you can see we have funnily
enough we there's a bug here it doesn't
actually affect anything but it puts a
new line on the end of all of the
tarball URLs but that gets ignored
anyway but each one of the doubles is
now resolved to the same local gateway
not they're not all the same cid it's
the cid for each individual Tarble
rather than the the whole registry
itself but this whole package this whole
collection of things is then being
pulled from your local gateway
automatically so you're able to then
share that with someone else and they
can start using that without necessarily
even needing to be online you can also n
if we go into a different tab say like I
would like to
to publish some packages that I care
about and not necessarily have an
application yeah but I want to put each
individual packages on try PFS let's say
I'm going to go on a plane and I'm
pretty sure that I'm going to use a few
of these packages to play with whilst
I'm there you can choose a particular
version or it will pick the latest
version by default and that will
basically work out what the transit
dependency tree of that particular
version of that module is and then do
the same thing and that makes a
individual now I wonder if I can access
this on the public gateway possibly ipfs
yes cool so that's M that wasn't already
there because I already run that come on
before otherwise it wouldn't have been
necessarily that quick given my terrible
internet but you can see we've got tar
balls and we've got Jason pang comments
and the Jason Pakman has or you can see
one here hey Adam a tar ball which goes
to localhost 8080
so that you can then reinstall that the
cool thing is that if we go back to my
previous project and so this one has a
dot M PMRC in it already
which will use that local registry but
if I say use install react with this new
mini registry that I created then it
works and you get a combination of those
two mini registries installed which then
you can say oh now I'll republish that
and that puts 116 rather than 106 or
whatever it was up into a new registry
so you can then start to combine
different registries together and
republish them without needing to have a
connection to the upstream registry so
you start to be able to kind of
become the ruler of your own domain when
it comes to how on where you want to
share your packages still some questions
around like the trust of that but that
might require some kind of notary
service where or like signing of
packages some way to prove out like the
CID is what does match up with or the
integrity hashes could be compared with
the NPM registry the thing that you end
up with there is like if you want to
make your own packages you can also
publish those directly to ipfs without
needing go through the registry so you
then need somewhere to say like I
announced that this is my package yes
Tim I don't know if we have enough time
but I'd like to I checked out the code
for ipfs NPM republish I like to clone
what you just published oh sure go for
it if you post a link then I'll screen
share so the the new registry I'll put
it in the chat here and I just published
what I might do is okay one thing I also
have to check out the git repository
separate from checking out the trim
getting ipfs link so yeah right now and
that particular project doesn't because
it's a module rather than a rather than
an application I'm not committing the
lock file I'm not committing the NPM RC
but what I would imagine people do for
their applications is they would commit
both of those files and so you'd be able
to check out the the git repository and
it would have all the config built in
yeah like if you could sort of share
this would be a higher level layer I
think but like to build a share like the
they get config like
references and things so that people
could clone it but better to be able to
fling the whole thing like almost your
current directory we get and all of the
dependencies up would be would be an
interesting next step when you do on
when you were getting the latest where
is it resolving latest from so latest
will be generated from if there are
number of versions listed inside of a
pacman it would order by semver and take
whatever the greatest number is in there
unless it's tagged so NPM slightly
different than many other packages you
can say any version you'd like is the
latest you can tag it with a string of
latest and that wasn't resolved as
latest thanks so don't know if that
would have synced for you yet Jim that's
so indeed larger than the registry that
I like how big is that I imagine is
seven megabytes it's not a huge I
expected that to be larger than that but
being on a video call and running an IP
FS at the same time Mike it's like I'm
not pretty sure if we could do this or
we other time maybe we should check this
offline but yeah we can you can give it
a try and let me know if it works on
slack it is on the Gateway now so it may
that may speed things up you can
definitely see what I published on the
Gateway and but I think that is about
all so thanks everyone for coming and
we'll see you next week